# careerApp
This is a repository dedicated to a full-stack, stand-alone, web application using flask, python, and sql.
The purpose of this application is to provide a more fascilitated and automated version of my career center's methods of storing and reviewing files within the file system.
Another purpose of this application is to provide a detailed example of a full-stack application for those who are curious, future developers, or anyone who needs guidance on how to go about creating full-stack applications like this.
Through this, we can see that my stand-alone application that interacts with my college career center's handshake so that it can establish connections to a database and have the capabilities to transfer documents within the system. This is also paired with email updates as well. 
Three main components are being utilized in order to create this application system. VSCODE is the source code editor that is being used for HTML, CSS, Python, and the flask web framework. It is a python module, meaning that it has a python extension, and contains code that can be imported to another python program. MySQL workbench was used in order to maintain the project's database, storage of data from the web application (through requests), and sending of data to the web application (through requests). Finally, MailHog was used so that emails could be verified that they were being sent at the same time something had changed within the system.
Primary Goals: Efficient and secure methods of data management. Elimination for the need of hard-copy files for the university's career center submitting application forms for participation and management in the web application and storing application forms in the database with a foreign key, or essentially a link towards that specific user. Allowance for the evaluation of these forms. Optimized for a better flow of work within the system. This all is done while keeping the career center as the focus of the web application.
Three ways in which I stopped my application from being attacked through user input includes: input validation and sanitization, parameterized queries, and user authentication and authorization.
While the web application is rather in-depth, there is still always room for improvement in the system. The styling of the application is not perfect and could be way more attractive. I would also like to add in a way to be able to send reminders as needed based on a user’s individual timeline that I have created.
Certain issues for admin functionality concerning the ability to change a form status after it has been confirmed, rejected, or redrafted.
